From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 12 recorded live
Thursday, April 22nd, 2010. Support for Hanselman
it's is provided by Tellerik.
Our car controls almost a
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdotttlerik.com in this episode's
got talks podcasting with Joel.
Spolsky Welcome to another excruciating
episode of this deco flow
podcast. This time, I guess
that's our opening. Even tell
Jeff Atwood that the show
was going to happen. That
was the first attempt at
an improvement, but I'm still
here. Well, Jeff was on
the show last week. That
was he. He was, I
know that you really listened
to my podcast religiously. So
you noticed, of course that
Jeff was, I'm just, I'm
just, I just have delay
with, with how long it
takes them to get onto
my iPhone, because I can
only plug it in at
work once a week or
so. So, so I'm still
listening to the lady that's
in charge of the win.
Oh my God. That is
incredibly well. That was like
a year and a half
ago. Yeah. And that was
an amazing episode. Let me
tell you she's pretty cool.
If I, if I hang
up the phone, what will
happen with, with this podcast
right now, then if I
hang up, if you hang
up the phone that I
won't have a backing track
and I won't be able
to record you and that's
how podcasting works, but you're
going to get, you're going
to get a recording sent
to you. All right. Nevermind.
I'm going to, I'm just
going to try to, what
if I hold the phone
like this, or I'm going
to switch it to sweet
speakerphone. That's what I'm gonna
do. So what, what Joel
is talking about is that
Joel and I are recording
this very special episode of
Hansel minutes and we're doing
it a stack overflow and
the stack Oracle podcast, because
the problem is that Joe
Joel is on a Skype
call and I really don't
like Skype. Scott refused to
do Skype and wants me
to use the plain old
telephone service that makes beautiful.
You just put the phone
down. Yeah. But you can
still hear me, right. I'm
hearing you through Skype though.
But see the phone is
on this, this line. I
need the phone for a
backing track. So you should
be, but you should be
hearing me through the speakerphone
speakers. Okay. Yeah. That's probably
adequate. It's my sound guy.
That's gonna worry about it.
So, because you're going to,
I'm going to give you
a beautiful love, my voice,
but the issue is Joel,
that I need a third
track with both of our
voices so that I can
line them up. Yeah. You
only have to line them
up once though, right? It's
not, it's not true, Joel,
because they get out of
sync. They get out of
sync. They guys. Yeah. Well
here's what we'll do. We'll
clap. Right. And then that
clap will be on both
tracks. You'll line up. So
let's talk about the differences
in sound quality between the
second podcast and the Hansel
minutes podcast brought to you
by NPR. Yeah. You're sounds
great. When you have those
little Tutti, Frutti microphone, things
that you have there, and
you have people live, you're
sitting in the wind hotel
lobby somewhere talking to some,
some person who does Twitter,
but, but mine works great
when you have remote people
or it works as well
as, as anything compared to
the quality of a, of
a pot's phone conversation. Which
just sounds like I am
well, yeah. An angry people
late at night. Yeah. That
is the issue. There is
a, but Skype. I tell
you it's it's it sounds
like a great idea, but
you can tell when you're
listening to a podcast that
was recorded on Skype and
there's Compared to the actual
being there. Now, what this
podcast will be by the
time people listen to, it
will be a slightly unsynchronized
collection of two MP3 files
or whatever you want to
actual digital three. But what's
the third one is doesn't
have any sound that we
need. We need your voice
from your way file in
my voice from my way.
All right, let's do this.
Explain to me audio engineer,
line it up. Let's do
it this way. Explain to
me how your, you guys
record your podcast. Give me
the technical stuff. And then
we'll break down the technical
stuff of our pockets. Okay.
So here's how we record
our podcast. I have a,
so I got this headset
and this is going into
a mixer over here. And
then I've got one computer
for every, this is interesting.
One computer for every participant.
Usually it's just Jeff. But
if we have a guest,
I'll have two computers and
I think I've done it
once with three computers. And
then what I have to
do is each of these
computers has a separate Skype
conversation with people. Now Skype
does have conference calling, but
I don't use the conference
calling capability of Skype because
it tries to have to
Plex or whatever that feature
is to prevent feedback. So
what I have to do
is have an individual conversation
with people on Skype, on
each computer. And then each
computer has a sound card
I'm using these external audio
pro things that are connected
by USB. And those each
feed their sound into a
big old mixer and the
mixer mixes it. And it
creates multiple ox outs, which
are what the sound engineers
call a mix minus that
the word mix minus I
think so the idea is
that if I'm having a
call with Scott and Jeff,
then Jeff needs to hear
my voice and Scott's voice,
but he can't hear his
voice because that will confuse
him. So I have a
mixer that has the capability
of taking everybody, but Jeff
and feeding that back to
Jeff and taking everybody. But
Scott feeding that back to
Scott and letting me hear
everybody in my headsets. And
then that all goes into
a digital recorder that records
everybody on an individual tracks.
I've got a four track
digital recorder, which is a
standalone Ederle device. I could,
I could turn around my
camera and show it to
you, Scott. But the, the
audience won't see it. And
it's a standalone, a digital
recorder that records, you know,
each of the channels. And
so then I can go
back and in, in post
production, what I do is
on each channel, I do
individual noise reduction because different
people have different noise profiles
depending on wherever they're sitting.
And you know, and I
removed snaps in his, his,
his, and pops and crackles
and bad words. And sometimes
what I do is I
take a little snippet of
Jeff laughing. Usually it's something
he's reading on the internet
and I move it after
one of the jokes that
I told. So it sounds
like he's laughing. I have
to. So I should probably
laugh just in case. Give
me some laughter. That was
great, Joel. No, that was
the bad Latin. That was
terrible. I know it was
called, but I don't really
want to talk about the
technology of the podcast. This
being a podcast on podcasting.
What I want to do
is talk about the contents.
Cause I think that we,
we just got, got a
little bit bored with this
deco flow podcast. We were
kind of repeating ourselves, the
audience hasn't grown for about
a year, we sort of
rapidly ascended to about 40,000
and then kind of got
stuck there. And I'm hearing
a lot of that from,
from, from how do you
measure this as a podcast?
I have no idea. This
is one of the problems
with it. Conversations is that
if I ask them, they'll
tell me, but they have
to go dig into something.
There's no Right. But what
I, what I'm saying is
that it's been a big
problem for us to figure
out how many people are
listening because a download doesn't
mean a listen, Okay, download
this or not. But download,
Cover that someone maybe listened
to halfway got sick of
you and then stop listening
and download. Doesn't tell you
whether they shared it with
their friends because podcasts can't
phone home. They can't really.
Yeah. It's not so easy
to share a podcast with
a friend. Really, If you,
we have lots and lots
of people overseas and I
mean lots who take download
the podcast and then they
copy it up to a
share. And then the company
listens to it. You're kidding.
Right. Especially in Africa, The
worst problem with downloads, which
is that I download all
your podcasts got, but I
only listen to the ones
with, you know, the, that
I can understand like the
Twitter lady from the hotel,
right? And then there are
all these ones where it's
like, we are the code
asp.net, MVC, GQ, our P
L G dot code behind
in version of control, container
mega complex for SharePoint operating
systems for windows seven, mobile
for windows, Trademark. And then
you just hang up at
that point. You just, No,
I never listened to that,
but I did. I do
download it cause that's what
iTunes does. It's just like,
Hey, feed me, just keeps
downloaded. I'm starting to tell
maybe what your problem was.
It's your podcast. I may,
I may, I may be,
you know, just a hunch,
Maybe it's you, Joel, I,
before we go any further,
I have to warn you
that just before I came
in here, I had a
great grain of rice that
had a lot of like
habanero pepper sauce on it.
And it is lodged in
my sinus, snorted it, of
eating it. I love that.
What you just said kind
of proved the point that
I just made. It's really
This Episode of Hansel minutes,
John gets stuck in his
sinus cavity. Exactly. It really,
at some point there may
be kind of explosive like
sneezing through five years or
something. Oh my goodness. Yeah.
Okay. Got it. So measuring,
measuring has been a challenge.
We, there are many ways
to measure a podcast. There's
what they call first bite,
which means they started a
download lashed bite, which means
they ended the download. And
then you can kind of
treat it like a, like
a feed, like on feed
burner, where you can say,
we think that there's a
certain amount of reach beyond
the downloads themselves. I think
we estimate 10% reach, which
means that somebody shared the
podcast with somebody, whether they
put it on a shelf
somewhere or they re blogged
it, we have a number
of people who take our
podcast and you can find
it elsewhere on the net.
Right. And it's hard to,
it's hard to measure these
things well, but the One
thing that I think most
people would say, you probably
can measure, even if you
don't know how many people
are listening to the beginning
of the end, et cetera,
is relative. Yes. You can
absolutely measure whether or not
a show was a good.
And we also measure how
many downloads we get over
the, what we call the
catalog. So when we talk
to advertisers, we usually tell
them that this week, you
know, we get X downloads
over the catalog, which means
that your ad will kind
of live forever. We have
a little 32nd ad in
the middle. And that, that
ad is, is, is that
a part of the podcast
or does that, can that
change? What will happen is
then I will use my,
basically we'll find a pause
in the middle of our
conversation and then I will
come out kind of like
IRA glass and all of
a sudden, yeah, No, I
know about that from a
different, another place in time,
but could it be an
ad that was placed even
after that podcast was recorded?
Like years later I've done
that, but we could, we
could go back into the
catalog and then put in
different ads. But no one's
asked for that and tell
it, tell her it has
been our, our guy for
a year and a half.
Yeah. They don't seem to
care. Hey man, if somebody
had to pay for the
bandwidth, it is expensive to
run a podcast. Yeah. Yeah.
Lawrence, the editor who is,
who answered the phone for
you Lawrence and he does
editing and he's in the
studio right now. We are,
our recording process is different
than your recording. You look
like you're in a house.
So I'm in my, I'm
in my house in Portland,
Oregon. It's not the studio.
This is not the studio,
but I have my little
kind of, he's an actual
studio, right? He's in new
castle, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Connecticut. And
does he have some feed
of your how's he getting?
You're just going to send
them the audio. I have
an M audio. Microtrack 24
96 little wave recorder here.
I've got a studio mic
stand deal with a spit
filter and a pop filter.
I've got a couple of
fancy cardioid audio Technica ensure
microphones. And I record 44
kilohertz wave locally. I never
use MP3s because I don't
want to make copies of
copies. And then I call
into a conference. I call
into a special line for
me, like a back line.
And then you called into
a conference line and then
each person calling into that
conference line is an individual
track. So you were talking
about how you deal with
different tracks. Yeah. We can
have other people call into
these, this, this, this, this,
this conference line. And then
each of those goes into
a telos at, in Connecticut.
And then each of those
goes down to a track.
And then Lawrence does everything
that you described. He does
all the sound Cleaning up
and making up and whatnot.
Yeah. For example, I realized
that my he's going to
be mad at me, but
I'll yeah. Since this is
a show about podcasting, I
had my, I had my
level set to medium for
the beginning part of the
show. And then I realized
I had to switch it
back to high. So then
somewhere in the middle of
the show, my voice would
go like this and Lawrence
will probably have to fix
that. And then he'll call
me later and tell me
not to do that again.
Well, at least somebody listens
to your show before we
go live. So this is
an interesting question though. I
mean, like, I always think
about NPR as my, my
goal. Like if the show
can sound like, you know,
this American life or something
like that, then that's success.
But you guys just record
a phone call and throw
it up on the web.
Yeah. Now, well, there's two
things to talk about. One
is audio quality, which we
are reasonably assessed about, but
I think Skype quality, what
we're doing is also what
Leo LaPorte does. That's pretty
much, it's the gold standard.
It's not having to wall
files or everybody being there
in a room. But if
you're going to do a
remote yes. Team thing, it's,
it's, it's fine. I mean,
people, you can listen to
it on, on a headset.
It sounds definitely better than
phone. Well, I had to
do some tests in that.
Cause the thing is Carl Franklin,
who is my sponsor. He's
the guy who owns the
studio. Yep. I hate Skype.
Well maybe he hasn't listened
to it lately. Skype, maybe
it's come a long way.
Right? I mean, what is
the audio quality over Skype
over the phone? It's eight
kilohertz. Yeah. I think it's
16 bit eight kilohertz. It's
like you said, it's it's
it's mano am. Yeah. Skype
will go is as high
as it needs to. And
depending on how much bandwidth
is available. So if you
listen to my podcast with
Jeff, I know people say
that it sounds like Skype,
but honestly I cannot hear
the difference between me and
him in terms of audio
quality. Sometimes he's better than
I am because he's got
a slightly superior microphone. And
the way in which his
microphone is superior is that
this is, this is a
mic that's designed, I think
for sportscasters. And so it's
trying to reduce ambient noise.
And that means if I
turn my face a little
bit, it'll, it'll cut out
really, really quickly. Like it
just did Really close to
your face though that Mike,
I mean, I can hear.
Yeah. You know, I feel
like I'm inside your mouth
right now. Right. And that's
what Jeff sounds like to
me. And when we record
that, that's what it ends
up sounding like. And you
know, we both got high
bandwidth Skype and we never
use wifi and we, and
when we do, it's a
mistake and it's a disaster
and we also, you know,
so that we have direct
connections pots and we cheat.
Yeah. You said we never
use wifi. Yeah. We never
used wifi. Oh, you're saying
that you always connect. We
always connect over the wire
with Skype because wifi will
drop out, you know, sometimes
even, Well, let's see. And
then this, I think this
is more the issue rather
than the issue about whether
you use Skype or not.
The issue is do you
have a decent mic and
you have a reliable connection.
I was talking to John
skeet on one of the
shows a while back and
I was trying to give
him the list of all
the things I want him
to do. And the thing
is that for a guest,
sometimes it's just easier to
say, just pick up the
phone and call this number.
And I will admit that
that's, if he had an
awesome mic and I had
him buy one or I
mailed him one or DHL
done one and we just,
I just went to his
office when we needed John
skeet as a guest. But,
but in general we will,
we will, it's a nice
trip. Now. We were there
for, we were there for
dev days. Anyway, we will,
we'll just order a, what
we know is a good
USB headset for somebody it's
like 45 bucks. And we'll
just order it for the
moment on Amazon and have
it delivered to them. And
then they'll plug in the
USB and we'll, we'll spend
a little bit of time
walking them through opening supports,
but sometimes it gets pretty
bad. Like what'll happen. We've
had some pretty bad shows
where you talk to people
and they're like, yeah, yeah,
I got the headset. The
Skype is going to be
awesome. It works really well.
And then they'll just open
like a Mac laptop on
wifi from a library somewhere.
Awesome. I can't talk to
that because it sounds it'll
sound awful because you know,
when you just open a
laptop, you've got the microphone
in the speaker and there's
some kind of feedback. It's
funny that you say that
because there's been a number
of times when I've had
people on the show. And
I had to think about
like, what kind of guests
is this? Like, is this
an important guest? Is this
like, just like a famous
physicist. I'm not going to
piss him off by giving
him to do, because some
of these guys, you just
want him to call in,
do the show and then
they want to leave the
green room and like, you
know, go get their gift
basket. But if you give
them a task yeah. Then,
but depending on their personalities,
they're not interested in accomplishing
your team. I'm not, Oh,
they'll do. Yeah. Our programmers,
like the people that people
are favorite everybody's favorite show
was that we did was
Steve Yaggie. Who's an absolutely
hilarious programmer. We used to
work for Amazon now works
for Google and you know,
really, really smart, really, really
well spoken, writes beautiful blog
posts. And, and that was
by far our favorite show.
And he's, you know, somebody
like that, he's a programmer.
He's happy to plug in
whatever USB microphone you send
them. Yeah. I just had
a couple of times where
I didn't like, you know,
but like, I guess the
more famous the guest is,
the more what's the word
or more star struck I
get. And I don't want
to like make, I don't
want my most famous guests.
We, when we, when we
had bill Gates on, I
was like, bill, you're just
not working for me. You
need to get off You
right now, go to staples
and get a Plantronics. And,
and, and he did it
Steve jobs. Wouldn't though Trying
to think who my most
famous guests I've done 210
shows. Charles pencils was pretty
huge how he'll put on
him. But he's awesome though.
Dan, Dan, Brooklyn, Dan Bricklin
and vendor, the spreadsheet, Dan
Bricklin would like nothing more.
I mean, we could, Yeah,
I know. I'm looking for
somebody who's famous who didn't
And talking about what the
best headset is. Yeah. Dan
Bricklin Dan Appleman is around
programmers. I did have, I
did have Michio Kaku on
the show. Like I invented
string theory and I did
definitely did not want to
make him angry. Cause at
any point he could have
just like left and just
said, And then the universe
would wink out. Exactly. That's
exactly what would have happened.
Oh, I had this guy
is not famous, but he's
awesome. I had the guy
that invented the Wildcat VBS.
Oh yeah. And I liked
that episode. Mary Jo Foley,
Mary Jo Foley was on
she's the lady who like
ma like on Microsoft, all
about Microsoft. It was really
kind of kind of sobering
because it made the difference
between a technologist and a
journalist became clear. Cause we
were talking about like windows
seven and she was running
windows XP. So she covered
it from a journalistic perspective,
but she didn't actually have
Have it. So that, that,
that is one thing I
noticed about Mary Jo over
the years is she knows
more about Microsoft than anybody,
but without, but she still
doesn't really have that. The
understanding of the technology. Like
she can tell you what
other people have said about.
Yeah. I think that's true.
That's journalism though. Right? Isn't
it? I think so. You
know, there's a different class
of journalists, which are like
the  and the, the
Leo who shall remain nameless,
who actually do get the
technology. I think more than
she does. Well, they don't
get the technology then. Oh,
here's one Tim Bray. Oh,
Leo LaPorte. Sure. He does
Johnny Varek definitely is a
programmer. No, really? Yeah. Why
is Lila port's podcast doing
so much better than that?
Ah, no. That's an interesting
question. The podcasts that I
think are doing really well
these days that are really
like smash hits are all
they're all journalists, journalists, and
professional broadcasters. The old report
from tech TV days that
he has been on the
radio since he was probably
on WIBC at Yale. So
he's been on, he's been
a radio host for ages.
John of Oreck obviously has
been a journalist for years.
Adam Curry was a VJ and
is just a fantastic broadcaster.
Really? Even though he's spouting
crazy conspiracy theories, Hang on
a second here. Let me
stop you. Yeah. People always
say, blah, blah, blah Jones
is an amazing radio host
and it doesn't, you know,
it doesn't really have any
idea what he's talking about.
Spouts talking completely out of
his ass, but fantastic journalist
and a great broadcaster. Correct.
What does that mean? Does
that mean I'm a lousy
broadcaster and a great technologist.
Yeah. The both of us,
I cannot listen to these
guys. God, God bless it.
I just can't listen to
them. Do you listen to
a lot of podcasts? I
mean, you work from home
so you don't have a
car. I understand that. I
enjoy doing this and I
want to take this to
the next level. But you
know, Leo, LaPorte's got 185,000
followers on Twitter and God
knows, and he's always in
the top eight of the
top 10 iTunes things are
his and I'm on page
seven. I realize I'm talking
about programming, but if I
just like made up facts
about edit this part of
your registry and windows, then
that would somehow make the
show more popular. Hey, it's
alternate universe, Scott Hanselman going
to thank our sponsors for
making this free show possible.
We've been doing Hansel minutes
for almost four years now
and we really couldn't do
it without tolerance. So I
want to tell you about
some of the stuff they're
working on. If you've already
started developing with Silverlight, then
you probably need a solid
testing tool to do your
serval at UIs. Unfortunately though,
a lot of the tools
available today only help you
with unit testing. There's not
really a good way to
simulate the actual behavior of
those end users, unless you
spend days and weeks doing
a lot of manual testing.
But the guys at Tellerik,
you've got a new point
and click UI testing tool
for server line called web
UI test studio. The beauty
is that you can quickly
record your tests with a
cross-browser recorder. You can enrich
them with code. If you've
got really complex scenarios. And
on top of that, it
supports all the standard controls
as well as the Tellerik
enhanced controls. You can verify
not only server life, but
even complex Ajax applications, best
part web UI test studio
lives in visual studio. So
you don't have to leave
your favorite development environment. You
check it out at telerik.com/web
hyphen testing, hyphen tools, and
be sure to thank Tellerik
for supporting the show on
their Facebook fan page at
facebook.com/tellerik. Well, the other one
who always on the top
of the iTunes list or
newly is Adam Corolla. That's
different. He's a famous as
a nationally famous comedian and
movie actor and TV actor.
And he's almost done. It's
been, I mean, he's a
comedian and a movie actor
and TV actor and stuff
like that. And then nationally
famous. True. But he brought
his audience from his radio
show from a syndicated radio
show. So he was like
a, like a, maybe like
a slightly smaller than Howard
stern kind of person. And
what I, what I think
is going on, it's not
that he brought an audience
of a million people. It's
not like if Oprah suddenly
started podcasting, she would have
2 million people in the case
of Adam Lila, port, Adam Curry,
the other Adam, I think
that these people are just
pros that are trained and
in radio Broadcasting. Okay. So
what's what does that mean?
That's just, that's what I'm
looking at is, has site
on twitch.tv. He's got 21
shows. He's got the production
value down solid. He's probably
got a team of editors.
He's got that whole cartoon
of the person who's on
the show thing. Like nicely
done everyone. Everyone has their
own little cartoon. I don't
know if any of these
people are. Yeah. The, I,
I, from listening to his,
to his shows to anecdotal
shows, it's a little bit
hard to say. One is,
you know, Leo is a
good interviewer because he's on
every show, right? That's the
thing it's like, no, no,
I'm not on the network
shows no. Well, I'm going
on. All these shows like
munch cast, it's a food
show, a lot of them
and it's Kimmy Blackstone and
Leo deported. He doesn't drive
the shows except for twit
and maybe Mac break and
a couple of big ones.
But the, the everything after
the, once you get past
the top two or three,
he's on there, but there's
somebody else who's responsible for
getting the guests for leading
the conversation and so forth.
The other thing that's these
shows are like 90 minutes
long. Yeah. Some of them
are really long. They're two
hours. Yeah. I'm looking at
this almost all of these
shows are at least an
hour and they're every single
week. We always this whole
job. No, I get that.
Yeah. I think he sits
there in the studio for
four, six hours a day.
Just talk at least just
talking. Yeah. And that's not
that odd. I mean, I'm
sure Howard stern does that
much talking as well. And
in any popular, you know,
radio, radio personality, Terry, Terry Gross.
And we'll do that Three
hour session to get, to
get fresh air. So you
get 20 minutes in the
editor. Yeah. Well, no fresh
air is an hour, but
she doesn't do the whole
hour. Usually there's a half
hour. I'm trying to think
of that for the fresh
air format. Usually there's like
half hour to 40 minutes
of her interviewing. Okay. And
then sometimes if somebody else
comes on and like reviews
a jazz album or something
like that. So, but that,
that comes out of like
a three hour interview that
she then hands over to
editors and they were solid
for a day to condense
it into something good. And
when you're here an interview
on NPR, like a real
NPR interview, like all things
considered on Saturday morning with,
you know, one of those
Soviet Jolie type people, you
know, you know, you know,
That's Soviet Petrolia is in
Rome. That's all I know.
Yeah. She's the one in
Rome who said, who are
some of the announcers? They're
always, probably they're all scaping
me right now. All things
considered are weekend edition. Our
friends, everyone on all these
are American TV shows, by
the way, for folks that
are Radio radio, radio shows
real national public radio, ATC
NPR. I don't know. Yeah.
But they're all journalists. It's
just different. Maybe that's the
thing. Maybe I need to
go to school there Journalists.
And what they do is
again, they do it Robert
Robert Siegel. Okay. So
Robert Siegel, you'll hear a
one minute thing where it
sounds like he's interviewing somebody
for a minute and it's
the most amazing minute you
ever heard. And that came
out of an hour and
a half interview that got
edited to get the good
parts I'm saying this because
you believe it or because
you know it to be
true. No, because I know
it to be true. That's
how, that's what this has
done. Okay. That is how
this has done Bobi and
that's. And that's why those
things are, you know, they,
they have that shiny Pearl
like glow Of a real
piece of journalism that we're
going have, but that's very
different than what Leo LaPorte
and Adam Corolla, who are
from the radio world and
the radio world. You've got
three hours of air to
fill and that's your job
or six hours of air
to fill. And you might
have a guest in the
studio and some people calling
in and you just need
to Blab and keep the
conversation going. That's the thing
I'm so uncomfortable that format.
Remember that the whole point
of Hanselman it's was minutes.
It's not the Hansel hour.
It's it's supposed to let
people have something to do
while they commute. And I'm
looking here. Well, that's what
your fill in time. Well
I'm okay. The goal was
not to waste anyone's time
is to give you content
and information, not this show,
but other shows looking at
this, this Twitch show, it
goes for an hour and
44 minutes this week. And
the show is called eat
a hot bowl of Nintendo
wheeze, Which means that, that
was a joke that somebody
I know, But it's like
four guys and they just
talk about stuff for the
day and you get, no,
I just can't. I just
can't listen to the show,
The format of this week
in tech, which is really
interesting because it is probably
the number one tech podcast
by, by leaps and bounds.
Yeah. Is it's, it's always,
it's almost always journalists. He
tries not to have guests
on that are actually people
doing things. And I think
there's some reason for that,
which I have to figure
out, but it's almost always
tech journalists of some sort,
a lot of them, a
lot of the recurring characters
are like the tech journalist
for the Houston Chronicle or
the Chicago sun times. You'll
have obviously John , who's
from CBS market watch, I
think right now and PC
world and a couple of
other and, and they're all
tech journalists and, and they
each bring in, they have
some way of contributing kind
of a list of what
they think the big stories
are that week. And then
they just chat about them.
But nobody prepares anything really.
So they're not particularly prepared
to say anything insightful or
in depth about these things
that they're talking about. Yeah.
It's just opinion. You know,
what do you think about,
you know, Apple buying Google
today? Definitely. I think I'm
looking at one of the
things that they do that
I like is this YouTube
thing. They'll take their show
and they'll report it and
they'll put it on YouTube.
So it's actually available in
multiple. Okay. It goes out
in like every possible format.
And that's a part of
his method is that first
of all, you can watch
the live stream and then
there's a chat while you're
watching that. It's pretty cool.
That's pretty cool. You can
get it. The chatroom is
very nice because this is
something we, we never had
and you don't have either.
But if you, if you
do it live and you
have a chat room and
later you can edit it
into a real show. If
there's something you don't know,
you don't have to stop
and Google it or anything
like that, you don't have
to interrupt the show. If
you're like, what was the
name of that person on
all things considered? You say
that and somebody in the
chat room types it and
it's just there and you
know, That's cool. And then
you're actually watching it while
it's being recorded. Like it's
streams as well. Yep. Yep.
That's pretty cool. I wonder
who, like, I think they
must be doing live editing,
like director style editing, like
a, like a game show
where it's like, go to
camera three for the video.
Yeah. Leo port has a
TriCaster, which is a, basically
a TV studio in a
box. It's a, in a
knapsack. I think they call
it it's the size of
a small mixer. So, you
know, maybe it's about 16
inches by inches by four
inches. And it sits on
his desk and it basically
lets you switch from camera
to camera. It lets you
fade from camera to camera.
It lets it lets him
bring in video from a
PC or from a laptop
or from a guest's laptops.
Cool. Let's put, he's got
it. It does all the
bottom thirds, right? Like the
captions. So he's pushing buttons
to get the names. And
what's actually shocking is that
Leo is doing that live
while he's doing the show.
No, he's actually pushing the
buttons himself. He doesn't have
a for advice. It doesn't
have a person. So if,
if, if, if, if a,
if you switched to a
guest, a lot of times
it's wrong. Cause he'll lose
interest in. It'll be putting
John Vorax name on a
picture of, you know, somebody
else because he's not keeping
up with it. Now they
have Jason Calacanis has the
same setup, but he's got
a guy doing the TriCaster
so he can just sort
of sit there and, and
look, that's pretty cool. Interesting.
Maybe I need to go
on here. Maybe I need
to be on his show.
Maybe I should join his
network of, of talking guys.
I don't know if you're
not really quite a journalist.
He really does like people
that are, I mean the
John, John Gruber would be
the furthest to field. He
would get from somebody that's
actually in some way doing
journalism and that's cause he
thinks of himself as, as
being a news outlet like
tech TV, or like a
journalistic endeavor a little bit.
He doesn't actually want it
to be the people on
the insides like us actually
building stuff or working on
stuff. Yeah. I got to
go to journalism school. I
don't know what a journalist
does these days. I think
of journalists. I think of
like that guy on ABC
news, Ryan Ross, right? That's a
journalist. That's the guy where
it's like and now coming
with like literally my wife
and I are like watching
the news. Brian Ross is our
big investigative journalist here in
the U S and he'll
go and he'll say coming
up next, Brian Ross. No. Oh,
I feel bad for the
poor schmuck that they've sucked.
Brian ups they've sent Brian Ross.
Africa is a pit bull.
Whatever, if he knocks on
your door, it's over, that's
a journalist Camped out on
here. Well, yeah, I dunno
if they would go that
far, but these are definitely
Watchers, not doers. And I
sometimes that's good and sometimes
it's bad and it's got
its pros and cons, but
there is something, there are
skills that I can see
how it would take a
decade of radio broadcasting to
learn them. Because in the
old days you didn't get
to be at the anchorman
on CBS evening news without
having spent, you know, the
first 10 years of your
life doing a crappy radio
show where you played 45
singles and then announced them.
And then the next five
years, maybe moving up to
being the sports news guy
with one minute of sports
news at the end of
the news on the top
of every hour and a
big station in Albuquerque, you
know, Koob 50,000 Watts reaches
500,000 people. That's a big
market and then you might
move to the Chicago market.
And then suddenly you're kind
of the news reporter there.
And after about 20 or
20 or 25 years, you
had enough radio experience that
people just want to listen
to. You talk somehow you,
you know, I mean it's
like Howard stern, right? It
could anybody just make a
show and interview strippers and
you know, say outrageous question
and, and just have a
woman on the show whose
job is to laugh. Could,
could anybody do that? And
the formula would work or
is there also something about,
he's learned how to speak
to a microphone by doing
it for six hours a
day for 10 years that
has made him in some
way, an expert that makes
people want to listen to
them. Interesting. So you're bored
with your show though. So
all of that, this is
very interesting because bringing it
back full circle, Leo talks
to the microphone successfully for
four to six hours every
day. And you're tired of
podcasts For decades. Yeah. And
because first of all, I'm
not going to have the
devil. It's not my number
one thing by far. So
I'm not going to have
the devotion and the dedication
to sit around and do
to, to do this to
the point where I can
actually be even Adam Curry, who
Adam Curry is funny. Right. Cause
he, his show, if you
ever listened to it, it's
all about the stupidest conspiracy
theories in the world and
you listen to it. And
you're just like, I cannot
believe that Adam Cray got
this far in life and
he believes this nonsense about,
you know, th th th
nine 11 was created by
the U S government or
whatever. And, and yet it
is so obvious that he
is better at speaking into
a microphone than I am
by, by leaps and bounds,
you know, like a million
times, But he's been doing
it since he was 18
or something. Right. Right. I
see anybody had, he probably
had some talent too, whatever
that is some kind of
linguistic talent. I mean, you
know, he probably, he grew
up in Holland and moved
to America and he probably
switched from Dutch to English
at exactly the right age.
So he has absolutely no
accent in English or in
Dutch, You're making this up.
So it's probably happened. Oh
yeah, no, that's true. And,
and, and, and it was
probably at exactly the right
age that gave him sort
of a fluency with language
that is like above and
beyond what mano, like one
language speakers would have. I'm
sorry, but just, You're actually
talking about fluency with language
and how important it is.
And you're like, it's like
much better how like, like
mano, like people who talk
like people who talk, There's
no question that bilingual that
genuinely bi-lingual, Oh, believe me,
my wife speaks English much
more better than I do.
Yeah. And I, I learned
Hebrew a little bit too
late if I had moved
to Israel probably like two
years earlier, I would probably
be a better English speaker.
And so, so that's what
I think it is with.
Yeah. I mean, I don't
want to say that's why
I'm great, but, but there
may be a, you know,
matters of innate talent there.
Well, so Adam Corolla is
a little bit different because
he's got, he's a comedian
and comedians learn certain sketches
that they just repeat again
and again and again. So
Adam Corolla, you're like, you
know, giving me the rant
about the Mexican lawnmower Gardner
dude, and he's got a
rant prepared, did he said
700 times and he's optimized
and he's timed it. And
he's given the same rant
700 times. And every time
it gets a little bit
better, a little bit funnier,
a little bit smoother. And
he just sort of does
that continuously tells those stories
continuously again and again and
again and again. Well, so,
so I'm not sure, but
we may have just recorded
a half an hour that's
we can just call the
sour grapes show as we
There podcasts. Remember the podcast
you and me and Jeff
and Roy did. That was
a really horrible podcast. This
is worse. I think this
may be awful. So this
is very interesting. So I
don't know Leo the port
personally, but I know that
Leo probably did not make
it 35 minutes into this
show. Cause he's busy actually
producing 21 shows himself that
are 10 to one. Do
you want me to try
to arrange a visit where
we, you and I go
to, to his place in
California, Northern California and just
visit him and watch him
do some shows and stuff.
That would be cool. All
right. I'll try to arrange
that Because we're like we're
down here kind of in
the, you know, we're in
the bottom of the food
chain podcast wise, we should,
rather than sitting around talking
about all the things that
we don't, we're not able
to do and, and, and
picking on Leo, we should
just go and find out
how he's doing it. Cause
you can't, this is the
thing you can't argue with
success now. Right? I was,
I was at a, I
was in a presentation recently
and I was talking about
stack overflow. And some of
the stuff technology wise that
you guys were doing that
I thought was weird, but
the thing is you're succeeding.
So who am I to,
to, to complain that? Yeah,
Well, what happens is the
technology is the second order
bit, right? There's a higher,
higher order bit there that
makes stack overflow successful, right?
It's the same thing with
podcasts, you know, how good
our audio quality is is.
And we're, we're, we're really
good at that relative to
some other shows. We remember
the Gilmore gang, which had,
I mean, in that case,
who cares how good the
content was. It was so
impossible to listen to. I
mean, that was a show
where everybody call into a
conference call and the first
15 minutes would be dead
air with just background noises
and Steve Gilmore, like yelling
at a taxi driver because
he was phoning in the
show from a cell phone,
in a taxi in New York
city and the first week
of the met. And you'd
be like, how could anybody
possibly listen to this? This
is inconceivable. Anybody could listen
to this show. So, so
they, they have managed to
have such bad audio quality
that, that dominated everything else.
But in most cases, it's
really the content, not the
auto audio quality. And if
you have a good guest
calling in via phone, it's
going to easily Trump, a
boring guest, you know, who's
right there in the studio
with you or calling him
via Skype or whatever, better,
better form of audio they
have. So that's the, that's
really that the high order
bit, and it's the same
thing with code. Whereas this
technologist and programmers, we constantly
obsess about, you know, what
programming language should I use
and which library should I
use and what object oriented
framework should I use and
what you know, now it's
gone beyond that to debates
over whether I should use
inversion of control containers and
which ones should I use
an hibernator and what are
all the, what, jeez, what
are all those choices for
different ways of accessing your
database and asp.net? And that
is definitely like the fourth
bit, right? That's a fourth
order bit in the success
of your product. That was
one of the speeches that
makes our podcast. I've worried.
I think so. It's, it's,
it's an interesting idea. I
enjoy doing the show and
I've always said in the
past, whether at that I'm
not blogging for, you know,
success. I'm not blogging for
certainly not blogging for the
Google ad money. Cause there's
not much of that. And
I'd same thing with the
podcast. It's a, it's a
labor of love. And I
know that labor of love
is a, is a cliche,
but it is, we've done
200 plus shows and I'll
keep doing it as long
as these one, person's listening
to it. So I wish
the old, certainly all the
best, but I'd love to
know some of his tricks
to, to get a wide
audience is definitely succeeding. Are
you, do you think you're
going to do your show
kind of in closing, do
you think you're going to
just stop or what are
you gonna do with the
show? I don't want to,
I don't want to repeat
myself too much. And the
original idea of the show
was we're building this new
things that go overflow. Let's
just sort of record the
Genesis of that because it
was neat that Jeff and
I were in different cities.
And so we had to
have regular phone calls to
kind of keep in touch
and build that. And I
sort of thought it would
cost us nothing to hit
the record button while we
were doing that. And somebody
would probably want to listen
to that. And unfortunately over
time, what happened is that
we became kind of, whenever
you do a, you know,
we're the kind of people,
and I'm sure you are
too, that whenever you're doing
something, whether you're doing it
for fun or professionally, you
want to get better and
better at it. And you
want every version to be
like a little bit better.
And so we started, you
know, I started worrying about
how to improve the audio
of the podcast and our
gear got more and more
esoteric as the audio got
better and better. And, you
know, we started having guests
and we started just trying
to think about how to
make it better and better.
And eventually it, it, it
was the, the, the way
to make it better would
be to make that my
job is to spend more
time on it, to practice
more this podcast. Right. So
we've been recording for, I
dunno, 40 minutes or so
now, 42 minutes, if we
go for another hour, you
can probably edit this down
to a much better 30
minute show, but you know,
who's got time. I've got
stuff to do. It's not
my number one priority. It's
my number three priority. So
that's why it's sort of
hard for me to decide
what to do about this
Decker of the podcast. Well,
I think the point about
making it, your job is,
is, is, is the trick.
I, I, this is not
my job. This isn't even
a Microsoft thing. It's just
something that Carl and I
did on the, you know,
kind of do on the
side that my boss tolerates.
So do they, I was
gonna, I was wondering about
that. Does your boss not
expect you to do that?
I mean, you're doing your
remarkable evangelism work for Microsoft
Hansel minutes. Well, what's, what's
the, what's a better word.
I'd rather be a customer
advocate. I'm kind of the
Ralph Nader of.net maybe except
not insane. Yeah, no, The
customer advocate implies that you're
taking customer things and moving
the customer information from customers
and moving it into the
company. Yes. Evangelism implies, right?
Yes. But I mean, Hanselman
that's, if you, if you
cover some obscure in version
of control container that somebody
is working on at Microsoft,
that really is outside ideas
and bring them, sorry, taking
insight ideas from, Yeah. I
mean, technically the show is
about things I'm interested in.
Like I've had engineers from
sun on and I've had,
you know, just the show
is not, I mean, every
once in awhile, if some
cool thing comes out, you
know, a visual studio, I
should do a show, a
visual studio, but it's not
like, I mean, like someone
who has called in the
past and said, Hey, we
have this new obscure thing
where you have us on
your show and I'll say,
Hmm. You know, that's just
not really how this works.
I mean, if it tickles
my, I mean, I'll look
at it and if it's
cool, that's awesome. I'll check
it out. But I don't
have people on the show
that I don't believe about.
And that's why the blog
is on my servers. And
it has my disclaimer and
my copyright and the, the
podcast is the same. And
it's like, I had, what
was his name? I had
Charles Petzold on. Right. Yeah.
You know, and that was
good. That was good episode
yet. And he was like
saying all sorts of stuff
that Microsoft people wouldn't say,
you know, he was like,
Oh yeah, the windows phones
got a black screen because
it's got better battery life.
You know, that's the kind
of stuff you can't get
from a Microsoft program manager
sometimes. Huh. But you will
get from, you know, an
old dude with a beard.
Right. And those are the
kinds of people I'd rather
have on, on the show.
I don't want this to
ever be like a mouthpiece.
And that's why no, absolutely.
That's why we control it.
Yeah. Yeah. So I don't
know. Do, do you think
that you want to be
on a podcast like every
once in a while, and
like you still have something
to say, we should actually
ask the audiences because maybe
they'll say like, in the
comments like that was supposed
to be his farewell show.
We never want to hear
from him again. Well, I've
already decided that like, like
that I wanted to pull
back from the being a
public persona. First of all,
in the case of blogging
where I basically said, listen,
I've done 10 years of
being a pundit. And I've
actually gotten to the point
where the value I'm providing
to the world through insightful
ideas is now exceeded by
the annoyance that people feel
when I open my mouth,
like those two things for
a while were in balance,
everybody was like, Oh, that's
an interesting idea. Oh, that's
another interesting idea. Oh, that's
a great idea. And it's
like, alright, too many ideas
to OSHA. Well, eventually one
of those surpasses the other
and it, and my bizarro
celebrity in the tiny niche
world of programmers that listen
to podcasts and read blogs,
which is already a small
subset of programmers, which is
already a small subset of
the world, but do it.
But I'm enough of a
celebrity in that weird, bizarre
niche that it's actually, it's
actually a little bit irritating
to me. And I was
trying to kind of pull
it back a little bit
and try to influence the
world in other ways. And
having, having done that for
a while. Well, particularly in
closing, Jeff told me a
story. I thought it was
kind of cool. I may
be one of those things
that's like in the Apocrypha,
but he said that you
guys were at an airport
somewhere wearing stack overflow. T-shirts
what happened During the StackOverflow
dev days. Jeff Atwater and
I were at the San
Francisco airport wearing stack overflow
shirts that we got made
up for the show. So
it's, it was like a
white Oxford shirt with stack
overflow logo and a kid
who looked like he was
20, but he was wearing
a suit. Cause it was
like a college kid on
his way to a job
interview or something comes by
to us. And he's like,
Oh my God, you guys
are from stack overflow. And
I can't remember exactly what
I said, but I'm like,
yeah, you know, I'm Joel
Spolsky, this is Jeff Atwood.
And he's like, who? And
he showed no sign of
ever having heard those names
before. And we're like, yeah,
we're the cofounders of stack
overflow. And he finally said,
Oh yeah. Okay. That's cool.
I like that site. And,
and Mike from Reddit was
there and were like, this
is Mike from Reddit. And
they're like, Oh, I like
read it even more. And
that's really what it's about.
Right? It's not about the
person it's about what the
person puts out there make.
Well, I mean, Joel, Joel
and software regularly, my, my
standard audience, I used to
say, if I were to
write a big blog post,
I would get anywhere from
a hundred thousand to a
million people are reading it
in a million. This was
a really big one. A
hundred thousand is probably the
number of people that would
have read that thing. Eventually
by the time it made
its way through all the
various different sites. And after
about a month or two,
about a hundred thousand for
typical, a major blog post
where I'm actually thinking of
something and writing about it
and stack overflow regularly reaches
7 million people a month. So,
so that's a, it's just
a different scale altogether. It's,
it's a much larger scale.
There's no possible way that
all those people know who
I am. And, and, and,
and we're reaching them kind
of with different kinds of
information altogether. I'm not telling
you, you programmers should have
private offices. I'm telling you
if you're calling the blah,
blah, blah windows, API function.
And the third argument is
not even though the documentation
said that was okay, and
you're getting a crash three
days later here is why.
And for the 15 people
that have that problem, that's
the information that we're getting
them. So it's a very
different kind of way of
sharing knowledge. I think let's
put it that way. Alright.
This has been another episode
of the stack overflow Hanselman
podcast. This is our second
joint podcast, second joint podcast.
And we'll see you out
to you by brought to
you by conversations once you
buy it by this weekend
stack overflow. All right. Thanks,
Joel, for hanging out with
me, sir. Nice talking to
this guy.